# Hello, world! 💥

We are going to create a simple JavaScript program, where an alert box will appear with the words 'Hello World'.

*************************************************************************

## The "Script" tag

JavaScript programs can be inserted into any part of an HTML document with the help of the `<script>` tag.

For instance:

`<!DOCTYPE HTML>`
`<html>`

`<body>`

  `<p>Before the script...</p>`

  `<script>`
    `alert( 'Hello, world!' );`
  `</script>`

  `<p>...After the script.</p>`

`</body>`

`</html>`

The `<script>` tag contains JavaScript code which is automatically executed when the browser processes the tag.

*************************************************************************

## Modern Markup

The `<script>` tag has a few attributes that are rarely used nowadays but can still be found in old code:

### The type attribute: `<script type=…>`

The old HTML standard, HTML4, required a script to have a type. Usually it was type="text/javascript". It’s not required anymore. Also, the modern HTML standard, HTML5, totally changed the meaning of this attribute. Now, it can be used for JavaScript modules. But that’s an advanced topic; we’ll talk about modules in another part of the tutorial.

### The language attribute: `<script language=…>`
This attribute was meant to show the language of the script. This attribute no longer makes sense because JavaScript is the default language. There is no need to use it.

### Comments before and after scripts.

In really ancient books and guides, you may find comments inside `<script>` tags, like this:

~~~~

<script type="text/javascript">

...

</script>

~~~~

This trick isn’t used in modern JavaScript. These comments hid JavaScript code from old browsers that didn’t know how to process the `<script>` tag. Since browsers released in the last 15 years don’t have this issue, this kind of comment can help you identify really old code.

*************************************************************************

[Back ⬅️](https://github.com/lukeashtonjohnson/Web-Development-Resource-List/blob/master/JavaScript-Basics/1.1-Introduction-to-JavaScript.md)

## Author

* **Luke Ashton-Johnson** - *Initial work* - [KODN.IO](http://kodn.io/)